Outline
=======

About me
--------

...

Life in Ops
-----------

  * Life is chaos
  * Hard to predict work
  * Automation smoothes workload
  * Continuous ticket handling
    * Work may be added at any time
    * Kanban

Life in Dev
-----------

  * Fewer surprises, more planning
  * Discrete ticket handling
    * Sprint planning sets tickets
    * Changes to sprint avoided

Traditional Ops
---------------

  * Acts like manual labor
    * "Build X server"
    * "Set up Y service"
  * 1:1 relationship with created things
  * Time invested generates constant output
  * You provide a source of labor

Ops with cfg mgmt
-----------------

  * Acts more like manufacturing
    * "Automate building X server"
    * "Automate setting up Y service"
  * 1:n relationship with created things
  * Time invested generates much more output
  * You create things that can be reused

Dev flavored ops
----------------

  * Software development has about 50 years of experience to build on
  * Cfg mgmt has ~10 years of experience to build on

  * Operations exists in a perpetual maelstrom of change

  * Software development and cfg mgmt behave similarly
  * What can we reuse?

Making changes
==============

Version Control
---------------

VCS as file transfer
--------------------

  * Make a bunch of changes
  * Commit them all

VCS as change control
---------------------

  * Break up work into logical commits
  * Change one thing at a time
  * Lots of small commits > fewer large commits

One commit per feature
----------------------

  * Logically grouped changes

What this gets you
------------------

  * `git cherry-pick`
  * `git rebase`
  * `git bisect`

Using CI
========

Mistakes happen
---------------

  * People forget to run tests
  * Git doesn't have mandatory pre-commit hooks

Gating with CI
--------------

  * Changes must pass CI
  * Guaranteed safety net
  * If it doesn't pass CI, it doesn't get deployed

Turnaround time
---------------

  * How quickly can you get feedback on your changes?
  * Catch errors earlier

Test driven infrastructure
==========================

We need a way to validate changes. More than just trying things out by hand, we
need a way to automatically confirm that things work.

Using test frameworks lets us specify the behavior we want, and instantly
validate it.

Tests can also act as a contract. They're a codification of what you care about
and help clear up expectations between outside parties.

Validating changes
------------------

  * You do a thing, how do you make sure it's working?
  * Test out service by hand
    * make sure ports are open
    * use service to make sure it works

    * Why do that by hand?

Testing infrastructure
----------------------

  * Use test frameworks for your systems
    * Intro to rspec
    * rspec-nagios-formatter
    * webrat
    * systemspec

Tests as a contract
-------------------

  * Use tests to formally declare what customer wants
  * Hard format so that everyone can see what's expected
  * CYA
    * "If you cared about some service then why don't we need to test it?"

Using testing
-------------

  * Run by hand
  * monitoring

Treating monitoring as testing
------------------------------

  * Great service to track this testing stuff - monitoring!
  * Test fail = monitoring alert
  * Directly link testing to long term monitoring

When everything breaks
======================

Problem solving for ops

The allure of technical solutions
---------------------------------

  * Technical solutions are a lot of fun
    * Write greenfield code
    * Solve a problem your way
    * Makes for a great presentation

  * Solve simpler problems
    * Determine minimal reproducible case
    * Make one change at a time
    * YAGNI

Scientific debugging
--------------------

  * Debugging through falsification
    * Choose one thing to falsify to cut problem space in half

Minimal viable problem
----------------------

What's the smallest test case you can create to reproduce an issue?

One problem at a time
---------------------

  * Solve one part of a problem, not all parts at once
    * As opposed to "look at the entire chain of events and think really hard"
  * YAGNI
